As the technology advanced all the data is now available over websites and in cloud services. It is really important to load these data into our local drive to work and analyze further on this data. But these data can be differentiated into public, private, protected, secret etc. and not all data should be accessed by everyone. As a result, websites introduce APIs and provides access to only the respective persons/organizations by providing the unique key.
The aim of this task is to register with a website and access their data by using the unique key provided by them. Here in this case I have registered with the website https://manifesto-project.wzb.eu/ , which provides the collection of political parties data containing over 1000 political parties from 50 countries since 1945.
Generated a unique key by registering to this website and using httr package, URL and unique Key is passed to the GET request of this package and obtained the dataset. Necessary binding has been done to convert this data to a data table


The dataset downloaded from the above website was a project dataset and the goal was to analyze substantially the position of the parties at various stages of the political process and to examine specifically the performance of programmatic representation
The data downloaded was having around 4456 rows and 120+ columns. Each row of this dataset represents one electoral program. The variable party uniquely identify each row of this dataset and the variables with perXXX indicates quasi sentences shares. Country and countryname variables provide the information of the country in which manifesto was published. Edate specifies the election date during which the respective manifesto was published. Variables party, partyname, partyabbrev represents the political party details. Parties electoral result is also provided by the variables pervote, voteest, absseat.
Content analytical variables starting with perXXX indicates quasi-sentences that were coded with the specific category. Let’s assume if a value is 4.9 for variable per301 which means 4.9% of sentences in the manifesto is assigned to the code 301 by an expert coder. And these values can vary from 1 to 100. The value 0 means no single quasi sentence coded with the code and if the value is 100 then statements related to only one category is present in that manifesto.
As stated in above paragraph certain codes will be assigned to each party manifesto by expert coders and this information of respective expert coder is available in variable coderid and in which version of instructions this is used (manual), and also the year details in which this coding done (coderyear) is also available.
With this dataset we can also measure if the political party is inclined towards left wing or right wing. Certain categories in the coding scheme are defined whether left or right by expert coders (as stated in above variables) and by observing the political manifesto and speeches from the respective parties during elections by addressing only left or right wing issues. By this data respective political party can be categorized into left wing party or right-wing party. These categories can be observed in the information page of the website from which the dataset has been downloaded.

For plotting the data required for above graph, qplot has been used as it helps in creating a graph quickly and can combine different types of graphs easily.
Initially the data related to Ireland and Northern Ireland has been filtered using filter command (line 29-32). And using the variables partyname, n (count of manifestos) and countryname, a simple bar graph has been created by passing partyname in x axis, count of manifestos in y axis and by filling the bars with respective country name. And later coordinate flip has been used to flip the coordinates. This provides a clear understanding of number of political manifestos presented by the political parties in both countries (Ireland, Northern Ireland) and helps the time pressured person to understand it easily.
The plotted graphs show that Soldiers of destiny, Labour party and Family of the Irish parties (Political parties name are in English) in Ireland has published 20 manifestos since 1948 whereas in Northern Ireland Unionist party has published 13 manifestos since 1948. The comparison of this graph show that the political parties in Ireland has published maximum manifestos than the political parties of Northern Ireland.
Also, it is observed that there are many political parties in Ireland publishing manifestos compared to Northern Ireland having only 3 parties published manifestos.
